.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Kipp Cannon (kcannon@users.sourceforge.net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH bkrcheck 8 "June 26, 2001" "Linux" "Backer"
.SH NAME
bkrcheck \- Backer device I/O testing tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbkrcheck\fP [\fB\-f\fP \fIdevname\fP] [\fB\-h\fP] [\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbkrcheck\fP performs two functions.  If no file name is given, then it
tests the operation of the
.IR backer (4)
device driver by writing a test pattern to one of the device files.  If a
file name is given then \fBbkrcheck\fP computes the length of tape required
to store the file using the format of one of the device files.  In both
cases, a particular device file can be specified with the \fB-f\fP option.
.PP
When computing the length of tape, the mode can be retrieved from
a backer device even if a transfer is in progress as the format retrieval
.IR ioctl (2)
does not interfere with tape I/O.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fIfilename\fP
Instead of writing a test pattern, compute the length of tape required to
store \fIfilename\fP.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIdevname\fP
Use \fIdevname\fP for communication with the device driver.  The default is
\fBDEVICE_NAME\fP.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Print a usage message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR backer (4),
.IR bkrencode (8),
.IR bkrenhanced (8),
.IR bkrmonitor (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Kipp Cannon (kcannon@users.sourceforge.net).
.SH AVAILABILITY
The most recent version of the driver and utilities can be found on
SourceForge at:
.RS
.sp
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/linbacker
.sp
.RE
.TE
