.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Kipp Cannon (kcannon@users.sourceforge.net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH BKRENCODE 8 "December 30, 2001" "Linux" "Backer"
.SH NAME
bkrencode \- Backer tape data processor.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbkrencode\fP [\fB\-Dh\fP|\fB\-Dl\fP] [\fB\-Fe\fP|\fB\-Fs\fP]
[\fB\-Vn\fP|\fB\-Vp\fP] [\fB\-d\fP[\fBs\fP]] [\fB\-f\fP [\fIdevname\fP]]
[\fB\-h\fP] [\fB\-s\fP] [\fB\-t\fP] [\fB\-u\fP] [\fB\-v\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbkrencode\fP is a user space implementation of the
.IR backer (4)
device driver's data processing functions.  It is a filter that reads data
from standard in and writes it to standard out.  It can either accept file
data and encode it into a byte stream suitable for being written directly
to tape or accept a raw byte stream recovered from tape and decode the file
data out of it.  The default is to encode file data to tape data.
\fBbkrencode\fP can also report the space required for a recording (either
the length of tape required or the disk space required depending on which
way the data is going).
.PP
There are three primary uses for \fBbkrencode\fP.  The first is to allow
slower systems to make full use of a Backer's high density modes by
removing the need to process the tape data stream in real time.  Tape data
can be prepared on disk ahead of time with \fBbkrencode\fP, then dumped to
tape via one of the ``raw'' device files.  To read a tape, the process is
reversed.  This, of course, requires enough free disk space to be available
to act as a buffer.
.PP
The second use of \fBbkrencode\fP is to allow tapes recorded with older
versions of the device driver to be recovered when the current version of
the driver cannot read the older format.  All that is required is the
version of \fBbkrencode\fP from the utilities package corresponding to the
older driver.
.PP
Finally, if given the \fB-t\fP option \fBbkrencode\fP will disable the
output of encoded/decoded data and instead print the size of the recording.
When encoding data, the duration of tape required for the recording is
displayed; when decoding a data stream, the number of bytes recovered is
displayed.  Furthermore, in the ``encoding'' direction the \fB-t\fP option
causes the data encoder to be by-passed altogether resulting in a
significant performance improvement.
.PP
It is necessary to inform \fBbkrencode\fP of the desired output format when
encoding a tape data stream and, likewise, the format a data stream is in
that is to be decoded.  If the mode is not specified on the command line
then the compiled-in default mode, \fBDEFAULT_MODE\fP, is used.  It is
possible for \fBbkrencode\fP to automatically retrieve the format to use
from a Backer device file.  This is done with the \fB\-f\fP option
followed, if necessary, with the name of the device to use.  The format
retrieval operation is safe to perform at any time:  it will not interfere
with any transfer.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-Dh\fP, \fB\-Dl\fP
Set the density to format the data for to high (\fBDh\fP) or low
(\fBDl\fP).
.TP
\fB\-Fe\fP, \fB\-Fs\fP
Set the tape speed to format the data for to EP (\fBFe\fP) or SP
(\fBFs\fP).
.TP
\fB\-Vn\fP, \fB\-Vp\fP
Set the video mode to format the data for to NTSC (\fBVn\fP) or PAL
(\fBVp\fP).
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB-ds\fP
When decoding, dump status information to
.IR stderr (3).
The information is presented in the same format as the device driver's
\fB/proc\fP interface and can be used as input to
.IR bkrmonitor (8).
Normally the status is written to
.IR stderr (3)
in non-blocking mode allowing the decoding of the data stream to procede
regardless of whether or not the recipient of the status information is
able to keep up.  If the \fB-ds\fP variant is specified then the output is
``synchronous'' which causes decoding to pause after each sector until the
status information has been read.  Depending on the execution environment,
this may result in a very large degredation in decoder performance but
ensures the correct operation of the status read-out software.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP [\fIdevname\fP]
Retrieve the mode to use from a Backer device file.  If \fIdevname\fP is
provided then that file is used, otherwise the mode is retrieved from
\fBDEVICE_NAME\fP.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Print a usage message.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
When decoding, skip over bad sectors instead of aborting.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Only compute and display the space required for a recording --- do not
output encoded or decoded data.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP
``Unencode''.  Extract file data from a tape data stream.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Generate additional messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
To save a file in short play high density NTSC mode using
\fBbkrencode\fP to process the data, type
.RS 3
.sp
\fB$\fP bkrencode -Vn -Dh -Ss < \fIfilename\fP > /dev/backer/0/nhr
.sp
.RE
and to retrieve it type
.RS 3
.sp
\fB$\fP bkrencode -u -Vn -Dh -Ss < /dev/backer/0/nhr > \fIfilename\fP
.sp
.RE
To use \fBbkrencode\fP to allow
.IR tar (1)
to be used with high compression on a slow computer do something like
.RS 3
.sp
\fB$\fP tar -cjO \fIfiles...\fP | bkrencode \fIoptions...\fP > /tmp/tape.dat
.br
\fB$\fP cp /tmp/tape.dat /dev/backer/0/\fIdevice\fP
.sp
.RE
.SH NOTES
It is essential that \fBbkrencode\fP be set to a format appropriate for the
mode used to transfer the data to/from tape.  If, for example,
\fBbkrencode\fP is told to produce a PAL compatible data stream which is
then written to tape via an NTSC device file the resulting recording will
be irrecoverable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR backer (4),
.IR bkrcheck (8),
.IR bkrenhanced (8),
.IR bkrmonitor (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Kipp Cannon (kcannon@users.sourceforge.net).
.SH AVAILABILITY
The most recent version of the driver and utilities can be found on
SourceForge at:
.RS
.sp
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/linbacker
.sp
.RE
.TE
