                            WORKING WITH THE DRIVER
                            =======================


See INSTALL for instructions on compiling, installing and loading the
driver.

See the man pages in DOCUMENTATION/ for information about the driver
itself.  You can run a file through man by specifying it on the command
line eg.

		man ./backer.4

(the ./ is needed so man knows to look for a file by this name rather than
a man page).


NOTE:
-----

THE EXTERNAL, PARALLEL PORT, VERSION OF THE BACKER DEVICE IS NOT SUPPORTED
AT THIS TIME.  The beginnings of a low-level module for external Backer
support is included with this driver and the documentation explains its use
but it does not work.  DO NOT SCREW WITH IT.  You've been warned.


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------

WON'T COMPILE.  Well... it compiles just fine on my own machine so it would
help if you could find the problem and let me know what it was.  Otherwise
you'd better just contact me and we'll have to sort it out.

DRIVER WON'T LOAD.  Be sure you are logged in as root.  Check
/var/log/messages for complaints about unavailable resources.  If there's a
problem reserving a DMA buffer, try freeing some memory or rebooting your
system and loading the driver soon after start-up.

DRIVER LOADS BUT YOU CAN'T OPEN THE DEVICE FILES.  If the error message is
"Permission denied" then check the permissions of the /dev entries.  They
must allow you access them.  Be sure that at least one of the low-level
modules is loaded.  Make sure that the minor numbers for the device files
correspond to the correct unit number (see the man page for the mapping of
minor numbers to unit numbers).

YOU CAN OPEN THE DEVICE BUT YOU CAN'T TRANSFER DATA.  As above, make sure
the minor numbers for the device files actually correspond to a valid unit.
Do the following test to see what error message you see

	cat /dev/zero > /dev/tape

If you see "Device or resource busy" then check to see that no other
process is transferring data and that the DMA channel is available (check
/proc/dma).  If you see "Connection timed out" then make sure the driver is
configured for the correct DMA channel.  If you see "Out of memory" then
your system has run out of memory.

YOU GET MANY ERRORS WHEN READING TAPES.  Is the tape you are using of good
quality?  Are your video cables OK?  Generally if the picture you see on TV
while recording looks nice and crisp then the cables are fine.  Is your
computer fast enough to process the data in real time?  This can be checked
by seeing if your problems go away when you use bkrencode to process the
data stream offline.  It might be that the data format is not appropriate
for your video equipment.  If you have Gnumeric, you can use the work sheet
provided in the EXTRAS/ directory to experiment with different format
parameters.  It's best to only re-compile bkrencode at first and test your
changes with it then re-compile the driver when you know the new format
works.
