Introduction
============

This directory contains some extra things that users of the device driver
might find helpful.


format.gnumeric
===============

In version 3.1 of the driver, the code for calculating the format
parameters in backer_fmt.c was replaced with a look-up table.  In 3.101 the
ability to dynamically load format tables into the driver on a
device-by-device basis was added.  format.gnumeric is a Gnumeric spread
sheet for computing the format parameters allowing new, consistent, look-up
tables to be produced.  This will be needed by anyone who needs to
customize the tape format for their video equipment or who needs to work
around a faulty Backer device.

The columns shaded in green are the columns that are meant to be adjusted.
The other columns must not be edited directly because they are either
computed parameters or are determined by the Backer device's hardware
characteristics.  In extreme cases, you might find that you need to edit
the "Even Field Size" and "Interlace" columns.  Faulty Backers have been
observed that generate the wrong number of lines per video field.  These
can be brought back to life, so to speak, by loading a custom format into
the driver to work around the problem.

When adjusting numbers, the columns to pay particular attention to are the
"Buffer Size" and the "Data Size" columns.  Both must be integers.

Once a format table has been arrived at, there are two options for loading
it into the driver and both techniques require an ASCII copy of the
contents of the Gnumeric work sheet.  To dump the work sheet to an ASCII
file, follow these steps.  Select "Save As" from the "File" menu and for
"File format" select "Text File Export".  Enter a file name and click "OK".
Add "Sheet1" to the "Sheets to export" list and click "Next".  For the
"Separator" select "Space" and for "Quoting" select "Never" then click
"Finish".  You now have the work sheet in ASCII form but you will have to
open it in a text editor and perform some modifications before it can be
used.  You must delete the first line (containing the column headings) as
well as all text prior to the first open brace ("{") on each line.
Finally, the "Parity" column must be deleted along with the extra comma.

If you wish to use the new format table as the global default for the
driver, replace the table in backer.h with the new table and recompile the
driver and utilities.  Note that after doing the editing described above,
the ASCII dump of the work sheet will already contain the commas and braces
needed for proper C syntax so no further editing is necessary.

If you wish to load the table into the driver at runtime (for example to
use it with only one specific Backer device) then all braces and commas
must be removed from the file leaving nothing but 180 numbers.  To load
this table into the driver, simply copy it to the appropriate format_table
file in the /proc filesystem.  For example:

	cp format.txt /proc/sys/dev/backer/0/format_table

to replace device number 0's format table with the new one.  The new table
will take effect at the start of the next data transfer.
