Introduction
============

This directory contains some extra things that users of the device driver
might find helpful.


format.gnumeric
===============

In version 3.1 of the driver, the code for calculating the format
parameters in backer_fmt.c was replaced with a look-up table.
format.gnumeric is a Gnumeric spread sheet for computing the format
parameters allowing new, consistent, look-up tables to be produced.  This
will be needed by anyone who wishes to experiment with the tape format.
When the spread sheet is loaded, you will see two worksheets.  The first
sheet contains some initial data and extra calculations of interest.  The
second sheet corresponds to the data table in backer_fmt.h.

The columns shaded in green are the columns that can be adjusted.  The
other columns must not be edited directly because they are either computed
parameters or are determined by the Backer device's hardware
characteristics.

When adjusting numbers, the columns to pay particular attention to are the
"Buffer Size" and the "Data Size" columns.  Both must be integers.

If you edit the numbers and want to modify backer_fmt.h, follow these
steps.  Select "Save As" from the "File" menu and for "File format" select
"Text File Export".  Enter a file name and click "OK".  Add Sheet2 to the
"Sheets to export" list and click "Next".  For the "Separator" select
"Space" and for "Quoting" select "Never" then click "Finish".  You now have
a text file but you'll have to open it in a text editor and delete the
first line which contains the column headings.  Finally, you'll also have
to delete the "Parity" column.  After doing those three things, you should
have a text file that can be pasted directly into backer_fmt.h but you
might want to do some more editing to make it look nice.
