                               INTRODUCTION
                               ============

A Linux 2.4.x device driver for the Backer tape backup devices manufactured
by Danmere Technologies Ltd. (now 4-TV Ltd.).



                          WORKING WITH THE DRIVER
                          =======================

See INSTALL for instructions on compiling and installing the driver and
utilities

See the man pages in drivers/DOCUMENTATION/ and utilties/ for information
about the driver and utilities.  Note that you can view a man page file by
giving the full path on the command line eg.

	$ man drivers/DOCUMENTATION/backer.4


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------

WON'T COMPILE (PROPERLY).  Well... it compiles just fine on my own machine
so it would help if you could find the problem and let me know what it is
so I can make any improvements to the configure mechanism and Makefiles
that might be warranted.  Of course, please feel free to contact me for
assistance in tracking down whatever problem you're having.


DRIVER WON'T LOAD.  Be sure you are logged in as root.  Check
/var/log/messages for complaints about unavailable resources.  If there's a
problem reserving a DMA buffer, try freeing some memory or rebooting your
system and loading the driver soon after start-up.  On x86 based systems,
DMA buffers must be located at low addresses in physical memory due to
limitations of the DMA hardware.  Even if you have lots of memory
available, you might not have any available in the range of physical
addresses needed by the driver.  If the problem seems to be with kernel
symbol versioning (you see error messages about unresolved symbols, etc.),
it means the driver didn't get compiled for your kernel properly;  see
above.


DRIVER LOADS BUT YOU CAN'T OPEN THE DEVICE FILES.  If the error message is
``Permission denied'' then check the permissions of the /dev entries.  They
must allow you to access them.  Be sure that at least one of the low-level
modules is loaded (eg. backer_isa).  Make sure that the minor numbers for the
device files correspond to a valid unit number (see the man page for the
mapping of minor numbers to unit numbers).


YOU GET MANY ERRORS WHEN READING TAPES.  Here are some common causes of
read errors:
	-Poor quality, worn, or damaged video tape.  Try using a good
	 quality, never-before-used, tape and see if that improves things.
	-Dirty video heads.  This can be checked by playing a commercial
	 video (eg. a purchased movie) or any other tape known to have a
	 high-quality video signal recorded on it.  If the picture looks
	 crisp and clear then the heads are clean.
	-Poor quality video cables.  Make sure you are using real video
	 cables and not audio cables (both use the same RCA connectors!).
	 Generally video cables are thicker and are surrounded by a single
	 cylindrical insulator while audio cables come in pairs or have two
	 insulated wires coming out of each plug.  Also, video cables tend
	 to have yellow markings on them in one way or another while audio
	 cables tend to have red and white markings.
	-Power line noise.  Spikes on the power line will propogate through
	 a VCR's power supply and be recorded as a horizontal line in the
	 video image.  They will also similarly interfer with playback.
	 Avoid engaging or disengaging heavy duty electrical equipment on
	 the same circuit that your VCR and computer are plugged into.
	 Especially avoid turning on or off large inductive loads on the
	 same circuit.  That would mean any device with large electric
	 motors or transformers such as bathroom fans, television sets, and
	 flourescent lights.  Note that the problem is only in turning them
	 on and off --- it is fine to have such items in continuous use
	 during record and playback.
	-Static discharge.  As above, static discharges in the vicinity of
	 the computer or VCR can result in spikes that find their way into
	 the video signal.  It helps to have both the computer and VCR
	 plugged into the same outlet and to have as short a video cable
	 connecting them as possible.  Try to ground yourself before
	 touching the VCR or computer if you have been walking around the
	 room.

If you have assured yourself that none of these problems apply to you, it
is possible that the video format used by this software is not suitable for
your video equipment.  I have only my own equipment to test the software
with and my equipment might not be representative.  Please contact me and
we can discuss the problem.  As an interim solution, you might find that
using bkrenhanced solves the problem;  it should not be necessary, however,
to use bkrenhanced under normal circumstances so do please let me know so
the problem can be fixed properly.
